behold the Lord's hand is not shortened
that it cannot save nor his ear heavy
that it cannot hear but your iniquities
have separated you from your God and
your sins have hidden his face from you
so that he will not hear for your hands
are defiled with blood and your fingers
with iniquity your lips have spoken lies
your tongue as muttered perversity no
one calls for justice nor does any plead
for truth they trust in empty words and
speak lies they conceive evil and bring
forth iniquity they hatch vipers eggs
and weave the spider's web he who eats
of their eggs dies and from that which
is crushed a viper breaks out their webs
will not become garments nor will they
cover themselves with their works their
works are works of iniquity and the act
of violence is in their hands their feet
run to evil and they make haste to shed
innocent blood their thoughts are
thoughts of iniquity wasting and
destruction are in their paths the way
of peace they have not known and there
is no justice in their ways they have
made themselves crooked paths whoever
takes that way shall not know peace
therefore justice is far from us nor
does righteousness overtake us we look
for light but there is darkness for
brightness but we walk in blackness we
grope for the wall like the blind and we
grope as if we had no eyes we stumble at
noonday as at Twilight we are as dead
men in desolate places we all growl like
bears and moans sadly like doves we look
for justice but there is none for
salvation but it is far from us
for our transgressions are multiplied
before you and our sins testify against
us for our transgressions are with us
and as for our iniquities we know them
in transgressing and lying against the
Lord and departing from our God speaking
oppression and revolt conceiving and
uttering from the heart words of
falsehood justice is turned back and
righteousness stands afar off for truth
is fallen in the street and equity
cannot enter
so truth fails and he who departs from
evil makes himself a prey then the Lord
saw it and it displeased him that there
was no justice he saw that there was no
man and wondered that there was no
intercessor therefore his own arm
brought salvation for him and his own
righteousness it sustained him for he
put on righteousness as a breastplate
and a helmet of salvation on his head he
put on the garments of vengeance for
clothing and was clad with zeal as a
cloak according to their deeds
accordingly he will repay fury to his
adversaries recompense to his enemies
the coastlands
he will fully repay so shall they fear
the name of the Lord from the West and
his glory from the rising of the Sun
when the enemy comes in like a flood the
Spirit of the Lord will lift up a
standard against him
the Redeemer will come to Zion and to
those who turn from transgression in
Jacob as for me this is my covenant with
them my spirit who is upon you and my
words which I have put in your mouth
shall not depart from your mouth nor
from the mouth of your descendants nor
from the mouth of your descendants
descendants from this time and
forevermore